The multi-proof tweaks are a big improvement, and this draft is now much closer to internally consistent + implementable. A few things are genuinely “locked in” now (nice), and a few remaining issues are worth fixing before you sink more time into code. 

WHITEPAPER (8)

What’s strong now
1) Profile C v5 story is finally coherent end-to-end

You now have:

chainId binding in the signing hash (prevents cross-network replay) 

WHITEPAPER (8)

MerkleSumTree root committing {hash,totalWeight} and included in the signing hash (closes denominator attacks) 

WHITEPAPER (8)

BLS PoP requirement (rogue-key mitigation) 

WHITEPAPER (8)

Multi-proof encoding (v5) + explicit QR matrix with/without multi-proof (nice, resolves the earlier contradiction cleanly) 

WHITEPAPER (8)

2) You correctly reframed the committee guidance

Now it’s explicit:

N=32–64 is “decentralization + manageable URL proof sizes”

QR mode is a smaller committee (N≤21) with packed+multi-proof 

WHITEPAPER (8)

3) Verification steps for Profile C are basically right

You now include:

bitmap → signer indices

multi-proof reconstruction

derive signer pubkeys + aggregate pubkey

verify agg sig

check signerWeight ≥ 67% of derived totalWeight

chainId check 

WHITEPAPER (8)

That’s the correct verification skeleton.

The biggest remaining gap (important): padding / non-power-of-two trees

In the v5 reconstruction algorithm you introduce:

“If only left child present… use padding node {hash:"padding", sumWeight:0} for right.” 

WHITEPAPER (8)

This is dangerous unless precisely specified, because:

the exact padding hash must be deterministic and domain-separated,

and your MerkleSumTree spec (Appendix A.3) currently assumes a full binary structure with explicit left/right hashing. 

WHITEPAPER (8)

If different implementations choose different padding conventions, they will compute different roots → consensus break or verification failures.

Fix (simple and robust)

Pick one explicit rule and make it canonical everywhere (tree construction and verification). Common choices:

Option A: next power-of-two padding with zero leaves

Define N’ = nextPow2(N).

Append (N’−N) dummy leaves with:

index = originalIndex, or special index, but must be stable

address = 20 zero bytes

pubkey = 96 zero bytes

weight = 0

Their leaf hash is computed using the normal leaf-hash formula, so no special “padding hash” constant is needed.

Option B: define EMPTY_NODE(level) deterministically

EMPTY_NODE(0).hash = SHA256(0x02) (example) and sum=0

EMPTY_NODE(l+1) = H(0x01 || EMPTY(l).hash || 0 || EMPTY(l).hash || 0)

Then missing right child uses EMPTY_NODE(level)

Option A is easiest to implement and avoids special-case internal hashing. If you keep Option B, you must write it down explicitly in Appendix A.3.

Right now, “hash:'padding'” is just a placeholder string; that will not survive review or independent implementations.

Second big gap: multi-proof reconstruction needs a canonical “consumption rule”

Your v5 encoding gives:

signer leaves (in bitmap index order)

auxiliary nodes (sorted by level, then index) 

WHITEPAPER (8)

That’s a good start. But the reconstruction algorithm still leaves room for ambiguity about:

how to treat “present vs absent” nodes at each layer,

whether you’re allowed to compute parents early,

and how to handle missing nodes (especially when N isn’t a power of two).

A safer approach is to define the multi-proof as a sparse map per level (which you’re already doing), and then define reconstruction as:

For level l from 0..depth-1, for every i in [0..ceil(layerSize/2)-1], the verifier MUST have child nodes at positions (2i) and (2i+1) either from provided map or from canonical EMPTY nodes. Compute parent(i). Repeat.

If you write that in one paragraph, you eliminate subtle verifier differences.

QR + size claims: you’re in a good place, but tighten wording

You now have three different size discussions:

the general /txp ancestry benchmarks (596–7,248 chars) 

WHITEPAPER (8)

Profile C size claim (1,000–2,500 chars typical) 

WHITEPAPER (8)

packed v5 matrices (e.g., N=21 ≈ 2,100 bytes) 

WHITEPAPER (8)

That’s fine, but one sentence will make it bulletproof:

“Profile C QR feasibility is measured on packed-v5+DEFLATE bytes, not URL chars; the ‘1,000–2,500 chars typical’ refers to URL-length after base64url wrapping.”

Right now readers might still mix “bytes” vs “chars.”

Redundant prior feedback you still haven’t addressed (still matters)
1) You still use amount: number, fee: number, etc. in the main spec

Appendix A.2 says uint64 smallest units, no floats 

WHITEPAPER (8)

 — but Section 2.1 transaction schema still uses number. 

WHITEPAPER (8)


People will nitpick this.

Fix: change the schema to uint64 / “integer (smallest units)” everywhere the transaction is defined.

2) Tokenomics table still visually screams “wrong”

Epoch 0 “31.5M” even with the footnote will keep distracting reviewers. 

WHITEPAPER (8)


You already said tokenomics is placeholder; I’d honestly just mark the whole section “draft / simulation pending” and make the table show “capped actual” so nobody derails.

Net assessment

Multi-proofs were a big win, and your new Appendix F is finally self-consistent: packed v4 vs packed v5, QR matrices, and quantitative savings all align. 

WHITEPAPER (8)

If you do just two fixes next, do these:

Canonical empty/padding rule for non-power-of-two committee sizes (and use it consistently in tree build + verifier).

Specify multi-proof reconstruction as a deterministic sparse-map algorithm (no “hash:'padding'” placeholder).